# An Analysis on the relation between characteristics of mental health and frequently watched YouTube video : centered on 20’s
📋 ABSTRACT
> In this study, we analyze the relationship between various characteristics of mental health and frequently watched YouTube videos, using deep-learning algorithms.    The primary characteristics of YouTube videos we study include the categories of videos (e.g., Travel & Events, People & Blogs, Sports, Entertainment & Comedy, Science & Technology, Music, Gaming, Pets & Animals, Howto & Style, Trailers, Autos & Vehicles, News & Politics, Film & Animation, Education, Nonprofits & Activism, the others), the coloring information of videos (i.e.,saturation and brightness) and the violence in videos. We concentrate on six psychological attributes related to mental health : self-esteem, social phobia, social comparison orientation, depression, general stress level and generalized anxiety disorder.
>
> 
> The study include 40 subjects who are 20-to-29 years old. We collect YouTube videos that subjects had watched from June 2022 to August 2022. The videos are sampled at the rate of one frame per every three seconds. In order to measure the violence of the YouTube videos, we use an image classification model based on the RegNet algorithm. We extracted the coloring information of the videos using OpenCV, and we categorized videos based on the YouTube API. We measured psychological attributes through various questions posed in a survey.
>
> 
> The results of the Pearson Correlation Coefficient and beta regression analysis are as follows. 1) Users who frequently watched violent videos tended to report social comparison orientation. 2) There was a positive correlation between a YouTube video having a high level of violence and being in the ‘gaming’ category and negative correlation between ‘Entertainment & Comedy’ or ‘People & Blog’ categories. 3) A viewer’s self-esteem was low and social phobia was high when the brightness of videos that he had watched was low. 4) Users who watched more videos in the ‘News & Politics’ category tended to report a lower self-esteem and suffered from higher levels of generalized anxiety disorder and depression than viewers who preferred to watch other categories. 5) Users who watched more videos in the ‘Entertainment & Comedy’ category tended to report a lower general stress level and suffered from lower levels of generalized anxiety disorder than viewers who preferred to watch other categories.
 # 
 🔑Key words : Violent YouTube content, Saturation, Value, YouTube video category, mental health 
 
